{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{lower-alpha\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid102\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{lower-alpha\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid202\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14140\viewh18900\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Kollective\'92s ECDN platform optimizes corporate network bandwidth by peer-assisted delivery of video content.  \
\
In this paradigm, an individual employee viewing a live broadcast video will try to source as much content from a nearby 
\f1\b peer
\f0\b0 , e.g. a coworker in the same office who is also watching the video.  If it cannot find a video segment from a peer, it will download it from the original 
\f1\b origin
\f0\b0  over the internet.\
\
Kollective wants to highlight the value of our peer-to-peer system to our customers.  To do this, we track every downloaded video segment, either from a peer or an origin, and store these as a list of 
\f1\b transfers
\f0\b0 .  \
\
By showing the customer how much content was peered vs. how much was downloaded from origin, we can demonstrate the 
\f2\i bandwidth savings
\f0\i0  that the Kollective platform is providing for their network.\
\
Consider a transfer to have the following data fields:\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}t : timestamp		(the time of the transfer)\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}type : [origin|peer]	(whether the transfer was from a peer or from origin)\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}size: int4		(the size, in bytes, of the downloaded content)\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}duration : int4	(the duration in milliseconds that it took for the transfer to complete)\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}source_id: string	(for peer transfers, a UUID for the peer/coworker.  Null for origin transfers)\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}dest_id: string	(a UUID for the viewer who is downloading the video stream)\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\f1\b \
Python Questions:
\f0\b0 \
\
Using any python libraries of your choosing (e.g. pandas, matplotlib):\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1.	}Create a schema for a transfer object using the above data fields.\
{\listtext	2.	}Create code that randomly populates a data frame / array / table of transfers.\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	a.	}This code should accept an input parameter for how many records to generate.  For example, an input of 5000 would indicate that 5000 transfers should be randomly generated.\
{\listtext	b.	}This code should accept an input parameter that indicates how many peer records to simulate.  For example, an input of 0.8 would indicate that ~80% of randomly generated transfer records should be of type 
\f1\b peer
\f0\b0 .  \
{\listtext	c.	}This code should accept an input parameter that indicates how many peers (source_ids) are available.  When generating a peer record, the source_id can be one of these N peers.\
{\listtext	d.	}Assume sizes range from 1MB to 10MB\
{\listtext	e.	}Assume transfers happen once every ~5 seconds and durations range between 100 and 400 milliseconds.  Typically peer transfers will be much shorter than origin transfers.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	3.	}Create some visualizations of the generated dataset that answer the following questions:\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	a.	}How much bandwidth was saved for the customer?  (peer bytes / total bytes)\
{\listtext	b.	}How did transfer durations between 
\f1\b peer
\f0\b0  and 
\f1\b origin
\f0\b0  compare?\
{\listtext	c.	}How much bandwidth was consumed over time (Mbps)?  How was this split across 
\f1\b peer
\f0\b0  and 
\f1\b origin
\f0\b0  bandwidth?\
{\listtext	d.	}What other visualizations might we show the customer to demonstrate our value?\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\f1\b SQL Questions
\f0\b0 :\
\
Now that we\'92ve generated our dataset and explored it in python, lets get it into SQL so we can productize these visualizations.\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1.	}Create a schema for a 
\f1\b transfer
\f0\b0  table with the appropriate data fields.\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	a.	}Explain any primary keys or indexes you choose to put on the table.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	2.	}How might you get your dataset from python into SQL?\
{\listtext	3.	}Create a schema for a second table called 
\f1\b node
\f0\b0 .  This table should have the following fields:\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	a.	}id : string 	(the UUID of the node, will match either 
\f1\b source_id
\f0\b0  or 
\f1\b dest_id
\f0\b0  in the transfer table)\
{\listtext	b.	}name: string 	(the name of the employee representing that node, e.g. \'93Joe\'94, \'93Carol\'94, \'93Bob\'94, etc.)\
{\listtext	c.	}office: string	(the name of the office where the employee works, e.g. \'93Boston HQ\'94, \'93Chicago Branch\'94, etc.)\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	4.	}Write a query that shows how many bytes one employee downloaded from another.  e.g.:\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	a.	}Bob downloaded 100MB from Carol\
{\listtext	b.	}Bob downloaded 80MB from Joe\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	5.	}Write a query that shows who downloaded bytes from someone in another office, e.g.:\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li1440\fi-1440\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	a.	}Bob (Boston HQ) downloaded bytes from Carol (Chicago Branch)\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\f1\b Further Thinking
\f0\b0 \
\
Some topics for you to think about that we may discuss on our next call.  No need to include responses as part of this assignment.\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	1.	}What other data/metrics might be worth collecting in this type of peer-to-peer system that would help further demonstrate Kollective\'92s value?\
{\listtext	2.	}What kind of data architecture might you use to be able to surface these types of insights to the customer?  How would the data be collected, processed, transformed, visualized, etc.?\
{\listtext	3.	}How might you make this system tolerant to out-of-order or duplicated records?  How might you test this system to guarantee there are no errors?\
}